Add release notes for 2.16.5 (#12383)
PrefectHQ/prefect: RELEASE-NOTES.md

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.16.5

> ### Exciting New Features 🎉
> - The flow run graph UI enhancements for visualizing state changes and artifacts added in 2.16.4 are now enabled by default. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12300
> - It is now easier to bulk select and delete flow runs through the UI. Listings of filterable and selectable flow runs (e.g. on the flow runs, flow, and deployment pages) now include a top-level checkbox for (de)selecting all currently filtered flow runs for bulk deletion. - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12356 https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/2227 & https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12285

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Multi-select deletion of flow runs
It is now easier to bulk select and delete flow runs through the UI. Listings of filterable and selectable flow runs (e.g. on the flow runs, flow, and deployment pages) now include a top-level checkbox for (de)selecting all currently filtered flow runs for bulk deletion. 

See the following pull request for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12356 
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/2227
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12285

## Visualize state changes and artifacts in the UI
Additionally, the flow run graph UI enhancements for visualizing state changes and artifacts added in 2.16.4 are now enabled by default. See [the release notes in 2.16.14 for more details](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/blob/main/RELEASE-NOTES.md#release-2164)!

```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.16.5

### Exciting New Features 🎉
- The flow run graph UI enhancements for visualizing state changes and artifacts added in 2.16.4 are now enabled by default.

### Enhancements
- Render artifacts and states on the flow run graph by default. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12300
- Keep artifacts file in prefect-client — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12316
- Add a select all flow runs checkbox to the flow runs page. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12356
- remove feature flagging around enhanced-deployment-experiment — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12360
- Feature : #11773 UI: Add checkboxes for runs for an individual flow to allow multi-selection/-deletion — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12285
- Retry 500s to make flow and task runs more resilient — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12084
- Add a capability to verify ssl certificates in Prefect CLI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11771

> - Add prefect task-runs to cli — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12307

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `prefect task-run` command group to CLI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12307
```

Reviewer: wow, this is a thing

> - [background tasks] emit pending event — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12352

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Correct emit background task state change events — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12352
```

- Update `CsrfTokenApi` to retry failed requests due to invalid tokens — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12373

### Fixes
- Refactor logic to set `task_key` for background tasks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12337
- Correct a memory leak with the outbound task run websockets — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12346

> - fix(task/flow): correct type hint for possibly async `@flow` hooks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12231

Reviewer: maybe more like 'correctly type hint in flow run state change hooks' or something

### Experimental
- Create `CsrfToken` model and utilities — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12289
- Create `csrf_token` endpoint to generate tokens for clients — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12297
- Integrate `CsrfMiddleware` into API server — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12303
- Add CSRF support to client — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12314
- Return 422 when CSRF is disabled and delete expired tokens — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12342
- Add `model_dump` definition for Pydantic v2 compatibility layer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12345
- Implement CSRF support in the UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12354

### Documentation
- Add upstream dependencies guide to docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12351
- Update documentation on event and metric automation triggers — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12366
- Add documentation on compound and sequence automation triggers — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12374
- Add CSRF settings to common settings section in docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12376 

### Uncategorized

> - Pin Buildkit to 0.12.5 to fix issue with test image build — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12343

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pin `BuildKit` to 0.12.5 to fix issue with test image build — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12343
```

- Backporting the Prefect Cloud composite trigger schemas — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12378

### Contributors
* @hainenber
* @JiginJayaprakash made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12307
* @baisystems made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11771

> **All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.16.4...2.16.5
> ## Release 2.16.4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.16.4...2.16.5

## Release 2.16.4
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.16.5

### Multi-select deletion of flow runs
It is now easier to bulk select and delete flow runs through the UI. Listings of filterable and selectable flow runs (e.g. on the flow runs, flow, and deployment pages) now include a top-level checkbox for (de)selecting all currently filtered flow runs for bulk deletion. 

> 

Reviewer: @collincchoy would you mind including an OSS UI screenshot here?

See the following pull request for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12356 
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/2227
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12285

## Visualize state changes and artifacts in the UI
Additionally, the flow run graph UI enhancements for visualizing state changes and artifacts added in 2.16.4 are now enabled by default. See [the release notes in 2.16.14 for more details](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/blob/main/RELEASE-NOTES.md#release-2164)!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.16.5

### Multi-select deletion of flow runs
It is now easier to bulk select and delete flow runs through the UI. Listings of filterable and selectable flow runs (e.g. on the flow runs, flow, and deployment pages) now include a top-level checkbox for (de)selecting all currently filtered flow runs for bulk deletion.

![image](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/2431caf4-c1be-4afd-bcff-3c24fa94dc64)

See the following pull request for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12356 
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/2227
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12285

> ## Visualize state changes and artifacts in the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Visualize state changes and artifacts in the UI
```

- Add prefect task-runs to cli — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12307
- [background tasks] emit pending event — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12352
- Update `CsrfTokenApi` to retry failed requests due to invalid tokens — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12373

### Fixes
- Refactor logic to set `task_key` for background tasks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12337
- Correct a memory leak with the outbound task run websockets — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12346
- fix(task/flow): correct type hint for possibly async `@flow` hooks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12231

### Experimental
- Create `CsrfToken` model and utilities — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12289
- Create `csrf_token` endpoint to generate tokens for clients — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12297
- Integrate `CsrfMiddleware` into API server — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12303
- Add CSRF support to client — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12314
- Return 422 when CSRF is disabled and delete expired tokens — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12342

> - Add `model_dump` definition for Pydantic v2 compatibility layer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12345

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `model_dump` definition for Pydantic v2 compatibility layer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12345
- Add experimental `model_json_schema` definition for Pydantic V2 compatibility - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12362
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.16.5

> ### Exciting New Features 🎉
> - Render artifacts and states on the flow run graph by default. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12300
> 
> ### Enhancements
> - Keep artifacts file in prefect-client — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12316

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enhancements
- Render artifacts and states on the flow run graph by default. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12300
- Keep artifacts file in prefect-client — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12316
```

> - Add a select all flow runs checkbox to the flow runs page. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12356

Reviewer 2: at the very least, we can clump 3 discrete things together. i need to scrape together some PR links... brb.

> - remove feature flagging around enhanced-deployment-experiment — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12360

Reviewer: @jakekaplan is this worth highlighting or do you know if this was already highlighted before?

Reviewer 3: @serinamarie I think this was highlighted before because we defaulted it to `True` and made it opt-out?

Reviewer 3: Confirmed with @pleek91 it was highlighted 2 weeks ago

Reviewer: niiiice!

- Feature : #11773 UI: Add checkboxes for runs for an individual flow to allow multi-selection/-deletion — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12285

### Fixes
- Refactor logic to set `task_key` for background tasks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12337
- Correct a memory leak with the outbound task run websockets — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12346

### Experimental
- Create `CsrfToken` model and utilities — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12289
- Create `csrf_token` endpoint to generate tokens for clients — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12297
- Integrate `CsrfMiddleware` into server — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12303

> - Add CSRF support to orchestration client — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12314

Reviewer: maybe these should be like Prefect Server and Prefect client

Author: Hmm, yeah. "Prefect Server" technically isn't a thing in 2.0, or it is, depending on who you ask. But maybe I can live in both realities with the right verbiage.

Reviewer: ah yeah, true true. I think we say "Prefect server" now in the docs

Reviewer: e.g. "a Prefect server"

- Return 422 when CSRF is disabled and delete expired tokens — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12342
- [pydantic v2] init compat layer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12345
- Implement CSRF support in the UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12354

### Documentation
- Add upstream dependencies guide to docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12351

> - Documentation updates for event and metric triggers — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12366
> - Documentation for the new compound and sequence triggers — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12374

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update documentation on event and metric automation triggers — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12366
- Add documentation on compound and sequence automation triggers — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/12374
```
